%%!flatline%%$omni%%%

%%:Ordinal Managed Node Initialization%%%

%%`0%%:Description%%%

OMNI$ is a modular interface for the sequenced execution of
implementation-specific initialization modules which are intended to
have the primary functions of:

1. Selecting the appropriate initialization module
2. Initializing appropriate node context
3. Providing initial dispatch requests to for FLATLINE outbound
4. Providing fall-back during unexpected failures

OMNI$ is the target operator of FLATLINE%, and is called from SYSBOOT$
as soon as ULO$ and ULIF$ are initialized. An exit from OMNI$ in any
circumstance causes FLATLINE.

OMNI$ follows a very simple rule-set and interface. OMNI$ itself does
not accept any inbound dispatches.

Internally, OMNI$ is logically partitioned into "levels". Each level
will point to a single procedure module ("program") as registered by
ATRIA%. The maximum level supported by OMNI$ is configurable, but is
structurally limited to 1,023 levels.

Upon entry, OMNI$ will always, without exception, execute Level
0. OMNI$ will always pass a non-standard "OMNI Authorization" ticket
(flatline_oa) to the registered program, containing the current Level,
as well as a function pointer to the FLATLINE% Dispatch Desk. OMNI$
expects a return of a XERIS Standard Report Ticket (xst_rpt). If the
Note parameter of the received Report ticket is "STA", OMNI$ will set
Level according to an assumed unsigned 16-bit integer read from
adi.adi16[0].

OMNI$ will then pass the resulting RPT code as a Telemetry ticket to
FLATLINE%ULO$. Additional information/parameters will be ignored. If
the next selected Level is not explicitly requested, OMNI$ will
increment the Level by 1. If the Level is 1023, OMNI$ will exit,
causing a FLATLINE inception event.

%%`1%%:Initial Entry%%%

OMNI$ shall be called directly from SYSBOOT$, and is not accessible
from the FLATLINE% Dispatch Desk.

SYSBOOT$ shall pass a Dispatch to OMNI$ with only the Non-standard
Ticket "ATRIA Strap" (atria_strap). ATRIA Strap provides pointers to
the OMNI Program Registry (atria_strap.opr) and the Secretariat
Registry (atria_strap.secreg). Refer to the relevent ATIRA%
specification for details of the ATRIA Strap non-standard
Ticket. These two basic elements allow for XERIS Standard OMNI Simple
Start twin phase package (oss/2). Please refer to the relevant oss/2
section within this specification for more details. 

OMNI$ will be initialized to Level 0, and execute the registered
program as provided by ATRIA Strap.

%%`2%%:OMNI as Custodian of the Tier Horizon Dictate%%%

The very conceptual underpinning of the XERIS/APEX System requires
that any Secretariat must be activated in response to an inbound
dispatch. Therefore, at the very beginning, there must be an assumed
active dispatch. According to the XERIS/APEX design, this first active
dispatch has no origin, and represents a point of time for which there
is no local past. When OMNI$ issues its first outbound dispatch via
OPSEC%, it appears to OPSEC% to originate from an existing dispatch from
which active dispatches are decedent from. That primordial dispatch is
known as the Tier Horizon Dictate (THD). The dispatch of the THD is
managed by FLATLINE%OMNI$, but is ultimately sourced from outside of the
local node or any neighboring nodes of its tier, and therefore
conceptually originates from beyond the "Tier Horizon".

%%`3%%:OMNI Simple Start, twin phase (oss/2)%%%

The OMNI Simple Start, twin phase (oss/2) is the base guaranteed OMNI$
implementation as included by the core XERIS/APEX Specified System. It
may be conceptually identified as the "original" OMNI$.

Generally it can be expected that the oss/2 package has
hardware/implementation-specific aspects, but the general purpose of
oss/2, and the depth of the specified behavior is covered within this
specification.

As the name implies, oss/2 consists of a basic two-Level OMNI$
configuration, which therefore constitutes two Program modules. The
two program modules are described below.

%%`/0%%:Level 0 ("Phase 1") - Clean Context Initialization (ccxi)%%%

The Level 0 Program refers to the Secretariat Registry to load the
initial "data" sections for all registered secretariats. It can also
be configured to zero-out all .bss sections.

Importantly, this phase initializes OPSEC%. Following this phase,
OPSEC% can be considered activated, but the OMNI$ is still behind the
Tier Horizon until phase 2.

%%`/1%%:Level 1 ("Phase 2") - Primordial Executive (pex)%%%

The Level 1 Program then executes, sequentially, a predetermined list
of dispatch orders. The last of which should dispatch to a general
monitoring process which will not return unless the system is
collapsing.

The idea of Level 1 is to "bring up" the node as intended, including
initializing appropriate drivers and systems as may be necessary
before launching core processes.

Level 1 is the only Tier Horizon Shock in oss/2, and is always
executed out of FLATLINE.
